example questions:
Category A)
1) physical change - 

	1. Which of the following is an example of physical change?
	A) An iron nail corroded in moist air
	B) Water separating into hydrogen and oxygen
	C) Liquification of copper metal
	D) Mixing soda and vinegar to produce carbon dioxide
	Answer: C)

	2. Materials like Iron and Ice can be changed from solid to liquid by increasing their temperature. This change is an example of which type of property?
	A) physical
	B) mechanical
	C) chemical
	D) nuclear
	Answer: A)

	3. All of the following events are examples of physical change except?
	A) Formation of frost on a car windshield on a humid winter night.
	B) An old car crushed into the shape of a cube
	C) A boat made from a sheet of paper
	D) The formation of glucose from carbon di oxide and sunlight
	Answer: D)

	4. Some metals like Iron are ductile whereas other metals like Potassium are not. This difference between the two is an example of which kind of property?
	A) chemical
	B) physical
	C) mechanical
	D) nuclear
	Answer: B)

	5. The boiling point of a substance is one of its physical properties. Which of the following describes a physical property
	A) A physical property measures the chemical properties of a substance.
	B) A physical changes the identity of a substance.
	C) A physical property is quantifiable and can be gauged without changing the composition of a substance.
	D) A physical property is quantifiable with changes to the identity of a substance
	Answer: C)


2) Liquid Water -

	1. Which of the following is not an example of an object containing liquid water?
	All of the following are examples of objects containing liquid water except?
	A) Swimming pool
	B) A cloud
	C) An ocean
	D) A pond
	Answer: B)

	2. Which process provides an example of converting liquid water to gaseous water
	A) subjecting liquid water to low temperatures below the freezing point of water
	B) subjecting liquid water to high temperatures well below the boiling point of water
	C) subjecting liquid water to high temperatures at the boiling point of water
	D) subjecting liquid water to high amount of electricity
	Answer: C)

	3. Which of the following is an example of a substance with the same state of matter as liquid water?
	A) Mercury at room temperature
	B) Iron filings
	C) Nitrogen at room temperature
	D) Aluminium can
	Answer: A)

	4. Steam is a gaseous substance and Ice is a solid substance. Despite this difference, these two substances have the same chemical composition as which substance?
	A) vapor
	B) hydro plant fuel
	C) hydro electricity
	D) water
	Answer: D)

	5. Water is a liquid substance. Which of the following describes a molecule of water?
	A) A molecule of water contains one atom of hydrogen and two atoms of oxygen.
	B) A molecule of water contains one atom of oxygen and two atoms of hydrogen
	C) A molecule of water contains hydrogen and carbohydrates
	D) A molecule of water contains two atoms of hydrogen and two atoms of oxygen
	Answer: B)

3) heat transfer using conduction

	1. Which of these examples do not involve heat transfer by conduction?
	A) Transfer of heat from a clothes iron to a shirt.
	B) melting of ice when held by a person.
	C) A car that is turned on warms the hood of the car.
	D) A heater heats a cold room.
	Answer: D)

	2. A person walking barefoot on a hot road is in risk of getting their feet burnt. The heat transfer between the road and the feet is an example of?
	A) convection
	B) conduction
	C) radiation
	D) global warming
	Answer: B)

	3. Which of the following is an example of heat transfer by conduction?
	A) A person's hand burning after touching a car engine
	B) A person's hand burning after touching a corrosive substance
	C) A burning sensation on a person's hand after touching poison ivy
	D) A burning sensation caused by acid reflux in the stomach.
	Answer: A)

	4. A person's hands are burnt after touching hot coal. A person's head becomes warm after prolonged exposure to the sun. The two situations demonstrate an example of the difference of which phenomenon?
	A) heat capacity of an object
	B) heat stroke of objects
	C) transfer of heat between objects
	D) heat of fusion of objects
	Answer: C)

	5. A spoon that is contact with a heated pan becomes hot. This is an example of heat transfer by conduction. Which of the following best describes heat transfer by conduction?
	A) heat is transferred between from a material with lower temperature to a material with higher temperature
	B) heat is transferred from an external source to a material far away from the source
	C) heat is transferred by a material as it moves from the source of the heat
	D) heat is transferred between two materials through direct contact because of a temperature gradient
	Answer: D)

4) celestial bodies interaction

	1. Which event is an example of an interaction between the earth and the sun?
	A) Solar Eclipse
	B) Solar Winds
	C) Earthquakes
	D) Volcanoes
	Answer: A)

	2. Planets orbit a star. This interaction between the planet and the star is an example of
	A) The gravitational pull of intermediate objects on both the star and the planet
	B) The gravitational pull of the planet on the star
	C) The gravitational pull of the star on the planet
	D) The gravitational pull of the center of the galaxy
	Answer: C)

	3. Which event is an example of an interaction between the earth and the moon?
	A) The size of the moon
	B) A blood moon
	C) An asteroid impact on the moon
	D) The whitish appearance of the moon
	Answer: B)

	4. A lunar eclipse is caused when the earth's shadow falls on the moon, whereas a solar eclipse is caused by the moon blocking the moon. The difference between the two situations is an example of which type of event?
	A) interaction betweeen artificial satellites
	B) interaction between objects in earth
	C) interation between living beings.
	D) interaction between astronomical objects
	Answer: D)


5) Chemical Change

	1. All of the following are examples of chemical properties of Iron except?
	A) The shape of Iron can be modified to make pipes
	B) Iron combines with oxygen in presence of water to form rust.
	C) Iron is not flammable under atmospheric air conditions.
	D) Iron reacts with hydrochloric acid to produce to iron chloride.
	Answer: A)

	2. Which of the following scenarios are an example of a chemical reaction?
	A) A human inhaling oxygen through the nose
	B) The human skin becoming disfigured when acid is thrown on it
	C) A solid substance changing its state when subject to high temperatures.
	D) The body of a human becoming wet when it is under water.
	Answer: B)

	3. The tissues of an animal decompose soon after its death. This event is an example of?
	A) nuclear reaction
	B) physical reaction
	C) chemical reaction
	D) mechanical reaction
	Answer: C)

	4. Some substances react with moisture, whereas other materials do not. This difference between the two is an example of which kind of property?
	A) physical
	B) moisturization
	D) viscosity
	D) chemical
	Answer: D)

	5. The reactivity of a material is an example of a its chemical property. Which of the following best describes a chemcical property?
	A) A property of a material only observable when the chemical composition of the material undergoes a change
	B) A property of a material observable even when material does not undergo a chemical reaction
	C) A property of a material observable that is not related to a change in its chemical composition
	D) A property of a material observable during both chemical and non-chemical reactions
	Answer: A)

6) Electrical property

	1. Which of the following best explains why copper is used in electrical wiring
	A) Copper does not corrode easily.
	B) Copper has very low resistivity.
	C) Copper can be combined with tin easily.
	D) Wires can be easily made from copper.
	Answer: B)

	2. Which of the following is an example of saving electricity?
	A) Having the lights on during the morning
	B) Turning the lights on while sleeping
	C) Leaving the air conditioning system on before leaving home
	D) Opening the windows in a house instead of turning on the Air Conditioning system.
	Answer: D)

	3. All of these are examples of generating electricity except?
	A) River water is used to spin a turbine which causes a generator to produce electricity
	B) Steam produced from fuel in nuclear power plants causes a generator to produce electricity
	C) Steam heated from burning carbon fuel causes a generator to produce electricity
	D) Turning on the main electric switch in a house causes electrical applicances to work
	Answer: C)

	4. Metal oxides are suitable for use in capacitors. However, Air is not very suitable. The difference between the application of the two substances is an example of which type of property?
	A) electrical
	B) electromagnetic
	C) chemical
	D) physical
	Answer: A)

	5. The dielectric constant of a material is an example of an electrical property. Which of the following best describes an electrical property of a substance
	A) A property of a material that can be determined in response to a chemical change
	B) A property of a material that is quantifiable in response to electricity.
	C) A property of a material that is quantifiable in response to only non electric fields
	D) A property of a material that is quantifiable in the presence and absence of electricity
	Answer: B)

7) Nuclear property

	1. Deuterium and Protium are isotopes of each other because?
	A) Both elements have the same atomic weight but different atomic numbers
	B) Both elements have same atomic numbers but different number of electrons
	C) Both elements have same atomic numbers but differ in their atomic weight
	D) Both elements have different atomic weight and different atomic numbers
	Answer: C)

	2. Nuclear reactions in reactors that use Uranium as fuel are an example of?
	A) Nuclear fusion reactions
	B) Nuclear fission reactions
	C) Nuclear burning reactions
	D) Fuel decay reactions
	Answer: B)

	3. Nuclear power is cheap and the world's supply of nuclear fuel is plentiful. What is the single major factor that has limited the expansion of nuclear power as a source of electricity?

	A) Disposal of radioative waste
	B) Noise pollution
	C) Danger of nuclear explosion
	D) Failure to share technology
	Answer: A)

	3. The concerns of disposing radioactive waste hass limited the expansion of nuclear power as a source of electricity. This concern is an example of?
	A) The potential hazards of nuclear energy.
	B) The potential benefits of nuclear energy.
	C) Danger of nuclear explosion
	D) Failure to share nuclear technology
	Answer: A)

	4. Which of the following provides an example of the strong nuclear force
	A) The nucleons in the nucleus of an oxygen atom repelled from each other
	B) The number of protons and neutrons binded together in a molecule of salt
	C) The protons and the neutrons of a water molecule binded together in the nucleus
	D) The nucleons in the nucleus of a carbon atom sticked together in the nucleus
	Answer: D)

	5. The nucleus of some atoms are stable, whereas it is unstable for other elements. This difference is an example of which property of these elements?
	A) electrical
	B) chemical
	C) nuclear
	D) electronic
	Answer: C)


8) Mechanical energy

	1. Which event provides the best example of a form of mechanical energy?
	A) The signal from a mobile phone interfering with a laptop
	B) A metal getting corroded.
	C) A swimming pool warmed by the sun
	D) An object orbiting the earth
	Answer: D)

	2. Which event provides the best example of a form of potential energy?
	A) A baseball pitcher's arm before pitching
	B) A boxer punching a punch bag
	C) A person singing at a concert
	D) A fire alarm ringing
	Answer: A)

	3. An animal aimlessly wanders through a forest throughout the day. This event is an example of?
	A) potential energy
	B) kinetic energy
	C) chemical energy
	D) sound energy
	Answer: B)

	4. Some materials have an inherent energy stored in them, whereas others do not. This difference is an example of which type of energy?
	A) kinetic energy
	B) chemical energy
	C) potential energy
	D) nuclear energy
	ANswer: C)

	5. An object rolling down a hill is an example of an object containing mechanical energy. Which of the following best explains mechanical energy?
	A) Mechanical energy is the combined energy possessed by a body as a consequence of all other form of energies.
	B) Mechanical energy is the energy possessed by a body as a consequence of its motion and kinetic energy
	C) Mechanical energy is the energy possessed by a body as a consequence of its position and potential energy
	D) Mechanical energy is the energy possessed by a body as a consequence of its motion and position
	Answer: D)

9) Heat transfer by convection

	1. Which of the following is an example of heat transfer by convection?
	A) A plate of warm food kept in a room gradually becomes cooler
	B) A person that touches a hot plate of food has their hand burnt
	C) A plate of cold food becomes warm when placed under the sun
	D) A plate of food becomes burnt when it is on fire
	Answer: A)

	2. A person's body cools down rapidly when they are outside on a very cold. This event is an example of?
	A) heat transfer by conduction
	B) heat transfer by convection
	C) heat transfer by radiation
	D) heat transfer by evaporative cooling
	Answer: B)

	3. All of the following scenarios are examples of heat transfer by convection except?
	A) A cone of ice cream melts when it is removed from the freezer
	B) A stick of butter becomes a liquid when it is out of the refrigerator
	C) A person feels warm while sittind under a bright incandescent lamp
	D) A person's face feels warm when operating a grill.
	Answer: C)

10) Recycling

	1. Which of the following is an example of recycling materials?
	A) A used plastic bottle is later converted into a plastic toy
	B) A used plastic bottle is disposed as trash and never used again
	C) A new plastic bottle is bought after using another plastic toy
	D) A new plastic bottle is manufactured by polymerisation
	Answer: A)

	2. The copper present in an old cell phone can be recovered and made into a vessel. This process of recovering for further use is an example of?
	A) reduction of usage of materials
	B) recycling of materials
	C) discarding materials after use
	D) manufacturing copper vessel from copper
	Answer: B)

	3. All of the following scenarios are events of recycling materials except?
	A) A broken bottle of juice is later made into a bottle used to store wine
	B) An old newspaper is used to make a new notebook
	C) A bottle of juice is made by combining liquid sand and limestone
	D) A crushed can of soda is processed and used as a can of soda again
	Answer: C)

11) Natural selection

	1. Which of the following is an example of natural selection?
	A) An animal survives in a desert because it can cope with a lack of moisture in the desert
	B) An animal in a desert environment perishes because it cannot cope with the sandy conditions in the desert
	C) An animal becomes endangered because of the increase in the number of predators that prey on the animal
	D) An animal is unable to adapt to conditions in a new environment.
	Answer: A)

	2. An animal that has many predators starts to develop a toxin which can be harmful to these predators. This scenario is an example of?
	A) selective breeding
	B) natural selection
	C) non evolution
	D) predator hunting
	Answer: B)

	3. All of the following scenarios are examples of natural selection occurring except?
	A) The shape and size of a giraffe's neck
	B) The development of lungs for breathing in terrestrial animals
	C) Certain animals being able to comprehend human commands
	D) The diet of a bird containing only one prey in an environment
	Answer: C)

12) Asexual reproduction

	1. Which of the follwing is an example of asexual reproduction?
	A) A species of protozoa receives genes from one parent
	B) A species of protozoa receives genes from two parents
	C) A species of animal is conceived by a sperm fertilizing an egg
	D) A species of plant has more than one parent
	Answer: A)

	2. An outgrowth in a certain animal breaks off from the animal to become a separate living thing. This event is an example of?
	A) selective growth 
	B) asexual reproduction
	C) natural selection
	D) sexual reproduction
	Answer: B)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of asexual reproduction?
	A) A part of the body separated from a host animal develops into an identical animal
	B) A new organism is born with genes inherited from one parent
	C) A new organism is born with genes inherited from two parents
	D) A part of the body keeps growing and separates from the host at a certain point
	Answer: C)

13) Rationing

	1. In which of the following events is the concept of rationing observed?
	A) Traffic lights that give equal priority to traffic on all sides
	B) The flow of traffic stopped to allow high priority traffic to travel without delay
	C) One family offered access to more supplies than another family
	D) A well-off family allowed to hoard water during a water crisis
	Answer: A)

	2. A family ensures that the resources available to them are distributed among them equivalently. This scenario is an example of which concept?
	A) hoarding
	B) rationing
	C) conservation
	D) reusing
	Answer: B)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of rationing?
	A) Rice is distributed in fixed amount to all people in a community
	B) People standing in a queue for water are entertained according to the order of the queue
	C) One person gets preferential treatment during a disease outbreak
	D) People attending a birthday party all receive the same amount of cake
	Answer: C)

14) Form of energy
	
	1. Which of the following is an example of a form of energy?
	A) The nails on a finger
	B) A leaf on the ground
	C) A police vehicle's siren turned on
	D) The handle of a comb
	Answer: C)

	2. The lifeguard of a swimming pool is stationed on a lifeguard chair. What kind of energy does the lifeguard possess?
	A) kinetic energy
	B) potential energy
	C) gravitational energy
	D) water energy
	Answer: B)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of a form of energy?
	A) An operational boombox
	B) The water in a lake
	C) Face cream inside a lid
	D) A lion roaring
	Answer: C)

15) Genetic Engineering
	
	1. Which of the following is an example of genetic engineering?
	A) An animal adapts to desert regions by learning to store drinking water
	B) The rate of growth of a plant is increased by altering its nucleic acids
	C) A piece of iron becomes modified after exposure to nitric acid
	D) The nucleus of an unstable atom is altered when it is exposed to high speed particles
	Answer: B)

	2. A breed of plants are modified by scientists to be able to clean polluted water before using it. This modification is an example of?
	A) Selective breeding
	B) Genetic Engineering
	C) Natural Selection
	D) Evolution
	Answer: B)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of genetic engineering?
	A) Modifying the vitamin content of rice
	B) Enabling crops to kill pests on their own
	C) An animal surviving a dry spell because of its inherent ability to retain water
	D) Enabling trees to grow at a faster rate
	Answer: C)

16) Selective Breeding

	1. Which of the following is an example of selective breeding?
	A) A carrot plant with high nutritional value is bred with another carrot plant that is resistant to pesticides.
	B) A carrot grows from a seed which is produced as a result of pollination
	C) The genes of a carrot are modified to allow it to be more resistant to pesticides
	D) Many carrots seeds are cultivated to meet the demand of carrot crops
	Answer: A)

	2. Some hens are bred with roosters having strong bones to enable them to lay more eggs. This activity is an example of?
	A) Natural Selection
	B) Selective Breeding
	C) Evolution
	D) Genetic Engineering
	Answer: B)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of selective breeding?
	A) Breeding two fast horses to produce an offspring that can be used for racing
	B) Cross-pollinate a sweet potato plant with a big potato plant to produce a big and sweet offspring
	C) Modifying the composition of a potato plant to make it sweeter in taste
	D) Oysters are selected for improvement in shell length
	Answer: C)

17) Balanced forces

	1. Which of the following is an example of Balanced forces?
	A) A snake moving in a winding motion
	B) A car moving with constant increase in speed
	C) A person falling down from a building
	D) A person holding a tennis ball on their palm
	Answer: D)

	2. An animal standing on the ground experiences a downward force because of gravity and an upward force from the ground. These two forces together are an example of?
	A) unbalanced forces
	B) balanced forces
	C) complementary forces
	D) Normal forces
	Answer: B)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of balanced forces?
	A) A person running at the same velocity
	B) A person sleeping in one posture
	C) A person falls down after being pushed on the back
	D) A person sitting still in a parked car
	Answer: C)

18) Erosion (soil/rock)

	1. Which of the following events are an example of soil erosion occurring?
	A) Trees on a slope becoming uprooted during a landslide due to loose soil
	B) Buildings constructed on hard soil that collapse as a result of an earthquake
	C) Houses constructed near the edge of a cliff are demolished by machines
	D) A large number of trees are grown in a region of rich soil.
	Answer: A)

	2. Some regions become barren because of grazing animals over a limit. The process that causes the land to become barren is an example of?
	A) Rock erosion
	B) Soil erosion
	C) Weathering of rocks
	D) Soil replacement
	Answer: B)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of a type of erosion?
	A) All the sand from a beach being swept away by the wind
	B) A crop field eing swept away by a flood
	C) Parts of a big rock being swept away a river
	D) The sand from a tar road being swept away by the wind
	Answer: D)

19) Human-made product/naturally occurring product
	
	1. Which of the following is an example of a human-made product?
	A) sandwich
	B) lettuce
	C) onion
	D) potato
	Answer: A)

	2. A space probe is used to study objects in outer space. It is an example of?
	A) A material originating from outer space
	B) A human-made material
	C) A material naturally occuring on earth
	D) A material used to study objects on earth
	Answer: B)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of a human-made product?
	A) A piece of paper
	B) A giant rock
	C) eye lenses
	D) A swimming pool
	Answer: B)

20) Waste elimination of plants/animals

	1. Which of the following is an example of waste elimination from an animal's body?
	A) A terrestrial animal inhaling oxygen using its nose
	B) A terrestrial animal exhaling carbon di oxide from its lungs
	C) An human's intestines absorbing nutrients from digested food
	D) An human being removing dirty clothes
	Answer: B)

	2. Excess water present on a plant's leaves is removed through evaporation. This event is an example of?
	A) photosynthesis
	B) diffusion
	C) waste elimination
	D) water production
	Answer: C)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of a mechanism of eliminating waste from the body?
	A) A human not ingesting undigestable food
	B) An animal removing undigested food from its body
	C) A plant oozing water drops from its leaves
	D) An amoeba expels nitrogenous waste through diffusion
	Answer: A)

21) Pure Substance

	1. Which of the following is an example of a pure substance
	A) Water in the swimming pool
	B) Ketchup
	C) laughing gas
	D) ice cream
	Answer: C)

	2. Epsom salt is a chemical combination of magnesium and sulphur. It is an example of?
	A) a form of energy
	B) homogenous mixture
	C) heterogeneous mixture
	D) pure substance
	Answer: D)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of a pure substance?
	A) paint
	B) graphite
	C) charcoal
	D) halogen elements
	Answer: A)

22) Mixture Formation 

	1. Which of the following is an example of a mixture?
	A) glucose water
	B) human blood
	C) methane
	D) washing soda
	Answer: B)

	2. The earth's atmosphere contains different gases like oxygen and nitrogen. It is an example of?
	A) pure substance
	B) gaseous compounds
	C) liquid substance
	D) mixture
	Answer: D)

	3. Which of the following is not an exampel of a mixture?
	A) glass of wine
	B) chocolate
	C) ozone
	D) grain of rice
	Answer: C)

23) Breathing (Breathing is the process that moves air in and out of the lungs, or oxygen through other breathing organs such as gills.)

	1. Which of the following is an example of the act of breathing?
	A) An animal smelling the scent of another dead animal's blood
	B) A person cleaning food from their nostrils
	C) The diaphragm is an organ located below the lungs in a human being
	D) Foul smelling food is harmful to the body
	Answer: A)

	2. An animal picks up the scent of its prey to aid with hunting. This event is an example of?
	A) eating other animals
	B) using perfume
	C) breathing
	D) ambushing prey
	Answer: C)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of an act of breathing?
	A) An animal taking in quick and short bursts of air
	B) Consuming oxygenated and aerated water
	C) A plant eliminating oxygen during photoysnthesis 
	D) A person emits a large amount of air when relieved
	Answer: B)

24) Reproducing

	1. Which of the following is an example of reproducing?
	A) A man and a woman together water a plant
	B) A big onion is combined with a tasty onion to create an onion salad
	C) A lionness protecting her cubs from a male lion during mating season
	D) An onion plant that grows very big is bred with another onion plant that is tasty
	Answer: D)

	2. A dog that runs fast is bred with another dog that runs fast. This act is an example of?
	A) natural selection
	B) reproducing
	C) maturing of dogs
	D) genetic engineering
	Answer: B)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of reproducing?
	A) A male bird and a female bird building a house together
	B) A small outgrowth that breaks off from an animal to develop into another animal
	C) A bull inseminating a cow
	D) The growth in the number of bacteria near an open wound
	Answer: A)

25) Taking in Nutrients

	1. Which of the following is an example of taking in nutrients?
	A) Growing healthy corn crops
	B) Floods washing away nutrient rich soil
	C) Drinking a glass of lime juice
	D) Buying a can of worms for fishing
	Answer: C)

	2. A human being consuming a can of peas is an example of?
	A) taking in oxygen
	B) taking in nutrients
	C) cultivating peas
	D) eliminating waste
	Answer: B)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of taking in nutrients?
	A) Munching a bowl of salad
	B) Gulping a bottle of energy drink
	C) Consuming water to stay hydrated
	D) Cooking a story to cover a lie
	Answer: D)

26) Learned Behavior

	1. Which of the following is an example of a learned behavior
	A) A dog wants to eat a pleasant smelling apple
	B) A dog stays away from a snake after already being bitten by one
	C) A cat is capable of catching its prey after watching its parent do so
	D) A cat drinks milk when it is hungry
	Answer: B)

	2. A dog hurts its jaws trying to eat a tree and does not repeat this behavior again. This scenario is an example of?
	A) learned behavior
	B) dog playing a game of fetch
	C) inherited behavior
	D) dog being obedient
	Answer: A)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of a learned behavior?
	A) A family of humans tend to lose their temper at the slightest annoyance (For example, you may react to certain situations with anger or violence—but that is a learned behavior and can be changed.)
	B) A parent eagle teaches its chick how to use its wings for flight (learned behavior - acquired through observation and practice (walking, speaking, writing, reading, flying...))
	C) The tail of a dog moves when it is excited
	D) A tiger in a circus jumps through a ring of fire
	Answer: C)

27) Inherited Behavior

	1. Which of the following is an example of an inherited behavior?
	A) A human being is able to grasp that a remote controller operates a television
	B) A human being systematically understands the origins of the universe
	C) A human being gradually begins to like eating fruits
	D) A human being is naturally afraid of the dark (fear is an inherited behavior pattern in humans)
	Answer: D)

	2. A tiger attacks its prey when the prey starts to run. This behavior is an example of?
	A) learned behavior
	B) inherited behavior
	C) environmental behavior
	D) unnatural behavior
	Answer: B)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of an inherited behavior?
	A) A turtle builds its nest in the same place that it was born
	B) A new born shark is able to move in the ocean water
	C) A dog obeys a human's orders to sit down on the ground
	D) Wolves take care of the of the elder members of their pack (Genetically inherited behaviors (pack behaviors, breed behaviors, etc.))
	Answer: C)

28) Change of state

	1. Which of the following is an example of a change of physical state?
	A) An empty iron pot being heated
	B) A person drinking a glass of water
	C) A small puddle of water disappearing on a hot and sunny day (Or a block of ice dissolving in a glass of whiskey)
	D) A person changing their physical appearance through plastic surgery
	Answer: C)

	2. Dry ice sublimes into carbon di oxide. This event is an example of? (The term sublimation refers to a physical change of state and is not used to describe transformation of a solid to a gas in a chemical reaction.)
	A) creation of a new subtance
	B) change of color of the substance 
	D) change of chemical composition
	D) change of physical state
	Answer: D)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of a change in physical state?
	A) A mirage of a body of water appearing on a hot day in the desert
	B) The top of layer of a lake being covered with ice in the winter
	C) A reservoir getting dried up in the summer
	D) Hands becoming sticky due to ice cream on a warm day
	Answer: A)

29) Behavioral adaptation

	1. Which of the following is an example of a behavioral adaptation?
	A) Walruses have thich blubber to keep them warm in icy waters
	B) A tiger has large canine teeth to strangle its prey
	C) Some birds travel to warmer regions during winters
	D) Polar bears have thick fur to shield them from the arctic weather
	Answer: C)

	2. Some animals like bats hunt actively at night. This attribute is an example of?
	A) physical adaptation
	B) The hunter becoming the hunted
	C) structural adaptation
	D) behavioral adaptation
	Answer: D)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of a behavioral adaptation?
	A) Two male lions fight over the right to mate with a female lion
	B) The sharp eyes of a hawk enable it to see far away object clearly
	C) Timber rattlesnakes become inactive and reduce their breathing during winter (During hibernation, the animal’s body processes, like breathing, slow down, and they survive on stored food or fat.) and (Timber rattlesnakes hibernate from early October to late April in dens that typically extend below frost line)
	D) Some penguins gather together to stay warm in cold weather (behavioral adaptation - huddle to stay warm) (Birds have many physical and behavioral adaptations to keep warm, no matter what the low temperatures of their surroundings.)
	Answer: B)

30) Negative impacts of technology

	1. Which of the following scenarios is an example of a negative impact of technology on society?
	A) A knife can be used to easily cut fruits and vegetables
	B) Artificial limbs can help disabled people walk
	C) A cutting plier efficiently cuts thich wires
	D) Gunpowder can help kill large number of people
	Answer: D)

	2.

	3.

Category B) - Activities

1) Reuse of everyday materials

	1. Which of the following is not an example of reusing materials
	A) Rain water harvesting
	B) Hanging a photo frame using copper wire
	C) burning fossil fuels to power a vehicle
	D) Create bird feeders out of soda bottles
	Answer: C)

	2. A container of coffee powder can be used as a salt container after the coffee powder is completely utilized. This event is an example of
	A) Using a material for only purpose
	B) Reusing one material for different purposes
	C) Using multiple materials for the same purpose
	D) Some materials incapable of being used for any purpose
	Answer: B)

	3. A person uses an identical grocery bag everytime they go shopping. This scenario is an example of?
	A) Reusing a material multiple times.
	B) Using the same type of material multiple times
	C) Saving money during shopping
	D) Saving multiple trips to the grocery shop
	Answer: A)

	4. A shirt can be repurposed after their initial use, whereas fossil fuels cannot. This difference is an example of which idea?
	A) reduction of material use
	B) inefficient material use
	C) plentiful supply of materials
	D) reusage of materials
	Answer: D)

	5. Wine corks can be reused in kitchen decoration. Which of the following best explains the concepts of reuse of materials?
	A) Using the same material only once
	B) Using a different material after each use
	C) Using the same material more than once
	D) Decrease the number of materials available for use
	Answer: C)

2) Escaping from predators

	1. Which of the following adaptations are an example of escaping from predators?
	A) A frog's slimy skin
	B) A male lion's mane
	C) The death roll made by a crocodile
	D) The scales on a snake's skin
	Answer: A)

	2. Some snakes pretend to be dead when faced against a cat. This activity is an example of?
	A) attack against prey
	B) defense against predators
	C) fighting over mates
	D) fighting over territory
	Answer: B)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of an escape mechanism from predators?
	A) A gazelle fleeing from a lion attack
	B) Some amphibians shedding their tails when attacked
	C) Some animals blending their appearance with the environment to avoid detection
	D) Some lizards sticking their long tongues to catch insects
	Answer: D)

3) Technology is used to help people

	1. Which of the following is an example of technology being used to help society?
	A) Trees offering shade on a sunny day
	B) The use of seatbelts in vehicles to help prevent fatalities during accidents (Some technology helps road safety.)
	C) The use of explosives to kill a large number of people
	D) Drinking water from a river stream to quench thirst
	Answer: B)

	2. Airplanes reduce the time taken to travel between two places. This fact about airplanes is an example of?
	A) technology used to help society
	B) detrimental effects of technology to society
	C) side effects of technology to society
	D) uselessness of technology to society
	Answer: A)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of technology being used to help people?
	A) Pacemakers are used patients with arrhythmias
	B) Spectacles are used to enhance imperfect vision
	C) Rain bringing relief to regions experiencing droughts
	D) A toothbrush being used to clean the teeth and tongue
	Answer: C)

4) The solution to one problem causing another problem

	1. Which of the following scenarios are an example of a solution to one problem causing another problem?
	A) Antibiotic medication are used to fight problematic bacterial infections
	B) A solar car can be used to overcome the problem of relying on non renewable fuels
	C) Painkiller medication can mitigate pain but can cause death if consumed in excess quantities
	D) A bottle can opener overcomes the problem of opening firm bottle caps
	Answer: C)

	2. Fossil fuels are used to power vehicles. However, the emissions of these vehicles cause air pollution. This difference is an example of?
	A) A solution to a problem with multiple solutions
	B) The solution to one problem solving another problem
	C) One solution to multiple problems
	D) The solution to one problem causing another problem.
	Answer: D)

	3. Which of the following is not an example of a solution to one problem causing another problem
	A) Consuming water hydrates the human body, but if consumed in large amounts it can be fatal
	B) Antibiotic medications treat bacterial infections but may cause vomiting and abdominal pain
	C) Nuclear power plants generate electricty without polluting air and water. However they generate radioactive waste
	D) A washing machine helps clean dirty clothes without manual labor
	Answer: D)